Intro: 
Navy Auxiliary: 
1. Player offered the opportunity to support Navy logistics by ferrying cargo. First two to three missions available both before and after bombing (although with altered conversations), another 2-3 only after. 4-5 missions overall.
2. Two pirate surveying missions in the north (as the Navy moves forces south in preparation for conflict with the Free Worlds, thus temporarily leaving the north with less protection in this pre-Oathkeeper period of the war).
3. Player contacted by a Republic official, for now called Ö, from an undisclosed branch that asks them if they'd be open to surveying and handing over sensor logs upon request as a side job of Navy auxiliary missions (saying no blocks further progression, forcing you to Free Worlds or Syndicate campaigns as strings are pulled to keep you out of rotation).
4. Pirate bounty-hunting mission in the north.
5. Two escort missions, first in the north, second in the south, near FW territory. Ö requests your sensor logs both times.
6. Second pirate bounty-hunting mission in the north, sending you against a fleet rather than a single ship. Upon completion, Ö sends a message telling you that a colleague of theirs might have use for you soon, and that if things go well he'll have an offer for you.
Investigation:
1. Another Republic official, indicating themselves to be a colleague of Ö and for now called A, contacts you and asks you to meet them on Mars. Goes with you to collect an expert working for a Parliamentary committee on environmental issues from Earth.
2 on. Parallel to the Katya investigation, starting from Martini and going to different worlds, ending on Earth.
Republic Intelligence:
1. Ö sends a message offering an opportunity to help the Republic in these trying times, and aks you to meet them on Luna. There they explain they are a member of Republic Intelligence, and has been keeping an eye on you for a while as a potential agent they can guide towards various trouble spots for the Republic. If the player asks about joining the Navy, Ö points out that the Navy, while an honourable vocation, isn't the sort of institution that you can simply join and immediately go to commanding a ship, nor allow the freedom to travel across the galaxy, and by the time the player would be in a position to captain a Navy ship the war would hopefully already be open. If the player accepts, Ö provides a cover - and salary - as a member of an obscure official 'Naval Auxiliary' organisation. This is the side-choice and gives Republic swizzle (hence the cover) and Navy License.
Start:
Moving from working against the Free Worlds, supporting the Navy, punting criminals trying to take advantage and some informal diplomacy with various groups. At the end, the player is granted a Navy Cruiser license.
Middle:
Similar to Start, but with interactions with the Oathkeepers and more contact with Parliament, both positive and negative. A returns, with it made clear that she works with Ö but does not always agree with him. Player is part of the Poisonwood liberation.
At the end, the player is contacted by two prestigious members of parliament, chairing parliamentary committees, and separately offered patronage and parliamentary privilege. One is part of a Deep-aligned bloc, the other is effectively a member of the Syndicate. A suggests the Deep (pointing out their long track-record of stable democracy and non-corrupt governance), Ö suggests the Syndicate (pointing out their critical role in holding up the Republic's economy, especially important after the Martini bombing). Selecting either gains the player a Navy Carrier license.
Reconciliation:
If the player takes the Deep councilor up on their offer, they get involved with a new investigation of the Martini and Geminus bombings, have Sawyer get to the Deep (the FW doing slightly less well and rumours of the investigation having leaked back to the Syndicate) and reach out to the FW for a storyline merging into Reconciliation, but with Republic forces taking even more of a lead and the ending having the Free Worlds agree to be an autonomous region of the Republic.
Checkmate:
If the player goes with the Syndicate senator, they help track down criminals (less important extremists, although the player is not informed of this) in the Syndicate to hand over to Syndicate Security, culminating in intercepting Sawyer. This pushes FW to Checkmate, with the player having an outside perspective.
